README.md, before:

# Autograder template
This template allows for course staff to easily create new assignments with
maximal automation and speed.

To pull this framework into an existing autograder repository run:
```
git remote add upstream git@github.com:rkulskis/autograder-template.git
git remote set-url --push upstream no_push
git config --global merge.keeporigin.driver "cp -f %A %O"
echo "classlib.py merge=keeporigin" > .gitattributes
git pull upstream main --allow-unrelated-histories
```

## Getting started
### Demo
```bash
make demo
```

### Customization
To create a new assignment do the following - note that step 7 is equivalent to
running steps 3 to 6 in one command:
0. `cp -r PA-template PA-assignment-name` to make your new programming
assignment directory
1. Add any necessary library functions to `problems/classlib.py`
2. For each part in your PA, create a new classfile in `problems/`
   * Inherits from the problem abstract base class
   * Implements:
	 * solution(): solution for this problem
		 * if you make `starter_solution()` then this will be included as the
		 starter code function for this problem. These solution methods are
		 compiled to the name of the class with the first letter in lowercase if
		 the second letter of the class name is lowercase. E.g.:
			 * `FindCycles.solution` becomes `findCycles()`
			 * `BFS.solution` becomes `BFS()`
	 * createTest(): create inputs and expected outputs as well as test
	 descriptions
	 * checkAnswer(): given {in,out}put.txt and student submission, return a
	 bool for whether student passed as well as test run info
3. In `PA-assignment-name/create_assignment_files.py`:
   * Import all of your problem classes
   * Create a `problems` list of class instances with test parameter lists for
   each instance as the constructor agument
   * Implement `interpretCommandLineArgs(args)` to read input and based on the
   input file, apply one of your problem functions and write the output
   * Run `make` in the same directory to autogenerate:
	 * test files
	 * `test.py`: autograder test script
	 * `{starter_code,solution}/submission.py`
	 * `classlib.py` files that are subsets of the entire classlib such that
	 only the necessary functions are included in each compilation (e.g. student
	 starter_code should only have necessary functions for the assignment as
	 dictated by the `solution/submission.py`
	 * Obsfucated version of autograder, i.e. undecipherable version with
	 compiled libraries for each platform: darwin64, linux, windows. This is in
	 `starter_code` for students, with only the visible inputs from
	 autograder. Also, we exclude `createTest(),solution()` from problem class
	 definitions to be absolutely sure there's no critical information in the
	 starter code distribution
4. Run `make` in `PA-assignment-name/autograder/` to run all tests
5. Run `make` in `PA-assignment-name/starter_code/` to run all visible tests
   * This runs the imported solution from `solution/submission.py` but you can
   comment this out if you want for local testing
6. Run `make zip` inside `PA-assignment-name` to make `starter_code.zip` (to
distribute to the students) and `autograder.zip` to upload to gradescope
7. To run all of steps 3-6 in one command, in the root of the repo run: `make
DEMO_DIR=PA-assignment-name`

## Background
Below is a `tree` of the code including descriptions for the files and how to
use them. The template code just generates random graph tests for an assignment
which has one function, `doubleEdgeWeights()`.

This structure is targeted toward comparing output files from python code
submissions, but can be extended to other languages as needed.
 
### Tree
```bash
⭐: Modify these files to make a new assignment
.
├── Makefile
├── PA-template
│   ├── assignment-description.{tex,pdf} ⭐
│   ├── autograder
│   │   ├── Makefile
│   │   ├── requirements.txt
│   │   ├── run_autograder
│   │   ├── run_tests.py
│   │   └── setup.sh
│   ├── create_assignment_files.py ⭐
│   └── Makefile
├── problems ⭐
│   ├── classlib.py
│   ├── {problems_for_this_PA,...}.py
│   └── problem.py
└── README.md
```
### Tree (with autogenerated files)
```bash
KEY:
⚙️: Autogenerated files using Makefile
.
├── Makefile
├── PA-template
│   ├── assignment-description.{tex,pdf}
│   ├── autograder
│   │   ├── classlib.py ⚙️
│   │   ├── Makefile
│   │   ├── requirements.txt
│   │   ├── run_autograder
│   │   ├── run_tests.py
│   │   ├── setup.sh
│   │   ├── submission.py -> ../starter_code/submission.py ⚙️
│   │   └── tests ⚙️
│   │       ├── {after_due_date, after_published, hidden, visible}
│   │       │   ├── inputs
│   │       │   │   └── input{%2d}.txt
│   │       │   └── outputs
│   │       │       └── output{%2d}.txt
│   │       ├── problems
│   │       │   ├── {problems_for_this_PA,...}.py
│   │       │   └── problem.py
│   │       ├── test_descriptions.txt
│   │       └── test.py
│   ├── autograder.zip ⚙️
│   ├── classlib.py -> ../problems/classlib.py ⚙️
│   ├── create_assignment_files.py
│   ├── Makefile
│   ├── problems -> ../problems ⚙️
│   ├── solution ⚙️
│   │   └── submission.py
│   ├── starter_code ⚙️
│   │   ├── assignment-description.pdf -> ../assignment-description.pdf
│   │   ├── classlib.py
│   │   ├── dist
│   │   │   ├── classlib.py
│   │   │   ├── problems
│   │   │   │   ├── {problems_for_this_PA,...}.py
│   │   │   │   └── problem.py
│   │   │   ├── pyarmor_runtime_000000
│   │   │   │   ├── darwin_x86_64
│   │   │   │   │   └── pyarmor_runtime.so
│   │   │   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   │   │   ├── linux_x86_64
│   │   │   │   │   └── pyarmor_runtime.so
│   │   │   │   ├── __pycache__
│   │   │   │   │   └── __init__.cpython-312.pyc
│   │   │   │   └── windows_x86_64
│   │   │   │       └── pyarmor_runtime.pyd
│   │   │   └── test.py
│   │   ├── Makefile
│   │   ├── student_output.txt
│   │   ├── submission.py
│   │   └── tests
│   │       ├── inputs -> ../../autograder/tests/visible/inputs
│   │       ├── outputs -> ../../autograder/tests/visible/outputs
│   │       └── test_descriptions.txt -> ../../autograder/tests/test_descriptions.txt
│   └── starter_code.zip ⚙️
├── problems
│   ├── classlib.py
│   ├── DoubleEdgeWeights.py
│   └── problem.py
└── README.md
```

Commit message:

feat: now autograder/ is autogenerated
You can change the config in your Makefile but this makes the code footprint
smaller and concise to only what you need.

README.md, after:

# Autograder template
This template allows for course staff to easily create new assignments with
maximal automation and speed.

To pull this framework into an existing autograder repository run:
```
git remote add upstream git@github.com:rkulskis/autograder-template.git
git remote set-url --push upstream no_push
git config --global merge.keeporigin.driver "cp -f %A %O"
echo "classlib.py merge=keeporigin" > .gitattributes
git pull upstream main --allow-unrelated-histories
```

## Getting started
### Demo
```bash
make demo
```

### Customization
To create a new assignment do the following - note that step 7 is equivalent to
running steps 3 to 6 in one command:
0. `cp -r PA-template PA-assignment-name` to make your new programming
assignment directory
1. Add any necessary library functions to `problems/classlib.py`
2. For each part in your PA, create a new classfile in `problems/`
   * Inherits from the problem abstract base class
   * Implements:
	 * solution(): solution for this problem
		 * if you make `starter_solution()` then this will be included as the
		 starter code function for this problem. These solution methods are
		 compiled to the name of the class with the first letter in lowercase if
		 the second letter of the class name is lowercase. E.g.:
			 * `FindCycles.solution` becomes `findCycles()`
			 * `BFS.solution` becomes `BFS()`
	 * createTest(): create inputs and expected outputs as well as test
	 descriptions
	 * checkAnswer(): given {in,out}put.txt and student submission, return a
	 bool for whether student passed as well as test run info
3. In `PA-assignment-name/create_assignment_files.py`:
   * Import all of your problem classes
   * Create a `problems` list of class instances with test parameter lists for
   each instance as the constructor agument
   * Implement `interpretCommandLineArgs(args)` to read input and based on the
   input file, apply one of your problem functions and write the output
   * Run `make` in the same directory to autogenerate:
	 * `autograder/` template code, this should work for any assignment, as if
	 you need additional python packages you can add them to the
	 `PA-assignment-name/Makefile` definition of `REQUIREMENTS_TXT`
	 * test files
	 * `test.py`: autograder test script
	 * `{starter_code,solution}/submission.py`
	 * `classlib.py` files that are subsets of the entire classlib such that
	 only the necessary functions are included in each compilation (e.g. student
	 starter_code should only have necessary functions for the assignment as
	 dictated by the `solution/submission.py`
	 * Obsfucated version of autograder, i.e. undecipherable version with
	 compiled libraries for each platform: darwin64, linux, windows. This is in
	 `starter_code` for students, with only the visible inputs from
	 autograder. Also, we exclude `createTest(),solution()` from problem class
	 definitions to be absolutely sure there's no critical information in the
	 starter code distribution
4. Run `make` in `PA-assignment-name/autograder/` to run all tests
5. Run `make` in `PA-assignment-name/starter_code/` to run all visible tests
   * This runs the imported solution from `solution/submission.py` but you can
   comment this out if you want for local testing
6. Run `make zip` inside `PA-assignment-name` to make `starter_code.zip` (to
distribute to the students) and `autograder.zip` to upload to gradescope
7. To run all of steps 3-6 in one command, in the root of the repo run: `make
DEMO_DIR=PA-assignment-name`

## Background
Below is a `tree` of the code including descriptions for the files and how to
use them. The template code just generates random graph tests for an assignment
which has one function, `doubleEdgeWeights()`.

This structure is targeted toward comparing output files from python code
submissions, but can be extended to other languages as needed.
 
### Tree
```bash
⭐: Modify these files to make a new assignment
.
├── Makefile
├── PA-template
│   ├── assignment-description.{tex,pdf} ⭐
│   ├── create_assignment_files.py ⭐
│   └── Makefile
├── problems ⭐
│   ├── classlib.py
│   ├── {problems_for_this_PA,...}.py
│   └── problem.py
└── README.md
```
### Tree (with autogenerated files)
```bash
KEY:
⚙️: Autogenerated files and directories using Makefile
.
├── Makefile
├── PA-template
│   ├── assignment-description.{tex,pdf}
│   ├── autograder ⚙️
│   │   ├── classlib.py
│   │   ├── Makefile
│   │   ├── requirements.txt
│   │   ├── run_autograder
│   │   ├── run_tests.py
│   │   ├── setup.sh
│   │   ├── submission.py -> ../starter_code/submission.py
│   │   └── tests
│   │       ├── {after_due_date, after_published, hidden, visible}
│   │       │   ├── inputs
│   │       │   │   └── input{%2d}.txt
│   │       │   └── outputs
│   │       │       └── output{%2d}.txt
│   │       ├── problems
│   │       │   ├── {problems_for_this_PA,...}.py
│   │       │   └── problem.py
│   │       ├── test_descriptions.txt
│   │       └── test.py
│   ├── autograder.zip ⚙️
│   ├── classlib.py -> ../problems/classlib.py ⚙️
│   ├── create_assignment_files.py
│   ├── Makefile
│   ├── problems -> ../problems ⚙️
│   ├── solution ⚙️
│   │   └── submission.py
│   ├── starter_code ⚙️
│   │   ├── assignment-description.pdf -> ../assignment-description.pdf
│   │   ├── classlib.py
│   │   ├── dist
│   │   │   ├── classlib.py
│   │   │   ├── problems
│   │   │   │   ├── {problems_for_this_PA,...}.py
│   │   │   │   └── problem.py
│   │   │   ├── pyarmor_runtime_000000
│   │   │   │   ├── darwin_x86_64
│   │   │   │   │   └── pyarmor_runtime.so
│   │   │   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   │   │   ├── linux_x86_64
│   │   │   │   │   └── pyarmor_runtime.so
│   │   │   │   ├── __pycache__
│   │   │   │   │   └── __init__.cpython-312.pyc
│   │   │   │   └── windows_x86_64
│   │   │   │       └── pyarmor_runtime.pyd
│   │   │   └── test.py
│   │   ├── Makefile
│   │   ├── student_output.txt
│   │   ├── submission.py
│   │   └── tests
│   │       ├── inputs -> ../../autograder/tests/visible/inputs
│   │       ├── outputs -> ../../autograder/tests/visible/outputs
│   │       └── test_descriptions.txt -> ../../autograder/tests/test_descriptions.txt
│   └── starter_code.zip ⚙️
├── problems
│   ├── classlib.py
│   ├── DoubleEdgeWeights.py
│   └── problem.py
└── README.md
```
